```
MIP: 4
Title: Private messages
Author: Jason Chavannes <jason@memo.cash>
Status: Draft
Created: 2018-09-14
```

## Abstract

Create private messages with two or more memo users.
Use separate addresses for both handshake and conversations to obscure communicating parties.

## Motivation

Sending private messages is a basic feature of a social network.
Using Bitcoin Cash, direct and group messages can be sent in an uncensorable, anonymous,
and asynchronous way.

Best-in-class encrypted messaging apps like Signal still rely on a central server to
relay and store the encrypted messages.
This creates a centralized place for people to be censored, for instance Signal has been
blocked in many places including China and Iran.

#### Security Concerns

Even though internet traffic can be recorded and played back later (which the NSA has done),
data on the blockchain has a much higher likelihood of being accessible in the future.

Quantum computers may one day be able to easily decrypt data encrypted today,
users should be aware of these limitations.

## Specification

Add two new protocol actions:

| Action | Prefix | Values |
|---|---|---|
| Private message handshake | 0x6d30 | address(35), dh_encrypted_handshake_message(179) |
| Private message | No prefix | encrypted_private_message(220) |

ECDH is used for handshake encryption key.
For regular private messages, a randomly generated key can be used.
No prefix is used for private messages, there is a separate prefix encrypted in the message.

Format of encrypted handshake message:

|||
|---|---|
| pm_address(35) | symmetric_key(32) |

Format of encrypted private message:

| Name | Code (First byte) | Fields |
|---|---|---|
| Message | 1 | message(219) |
| Other members | 2 | address(35) x 6 |
| Memo account signature | 3 | address(35) signature(50?) |

#### Example Flow

1. Initiator generates two new addresses, sends handshake from a new address to recipient
main address
    - Handshake encrypts second address in message (see spec)
2. Recipient responds with a handshake using two keys as well (same symmetric key)
    - Can include multiple recipients, people can be added to the conversation at any time
3. Only group creator must coordinate handshakes
    - Once handshake with coordinator, can read chat history to find messages
    that include other members

#### Bloom Filter Support

Participants only need to bloom filter on their pk_hash to detect handshakes.
Once handshake detected, can add bloom filter for pm_address to see chats.
Reading chat messages, can add bloom filters for other members.
PM addresses should only be used for a single conversation,
so all messages from that address should be part of the conversation and decryptable.

#### Using Separate Addresses

The main purpose of using separate addresses is to publicly obscure who is communicating.
(Separate addresses also help with bloom filters.)
If you fund your chat addresses from your main account then your chat conversations can
be linked with your identity.
This essentially defeats the purpose of using separate addresses.
In order to properly publicly de-link your chat conversations from your identity,
your chat addresses must be funded separately and anonymously,
perhaps using a service like Coinshuffle.

## Reference Implementation

Planned

## See Also
