```
MIP: 10
Title: Address Handles
Author: Jason Chavannes <jason@memo.cash>
Status: Draft
Created: 2020-02-28
```

## Abstract

Deterministic short-hand username people can easily share.
Attempted protections against squatting.

## Motivation

Highly requested feature.
Difficult to fight squatters though.
Also desire to keep it simple.

Using addresses as handles helps against squatting since anyone can make a handle as long as it's unique.
Handles with common words would need to be "mined".
The longer the handle the harder they would be to mine.

People may squat on all short handles,
but longer handles will not be easy to squat without significant computational power.
As computers keep getting better over time the easier it will be to get longer handles.
This means there should continuously be a market of new handles available.

Also, with the new linked keys identity system ([MIP-0003](mip-0003/mip-0003.md))
multiple handles can be associated with a single identity.

## Specification (WIP)

#### Actions

No specific actions for handles.
Any memo action performed by an address registers that address in the handle system.

#### Process

All addresses that perform memo actions are recorded.
You can first @ a full address.
For example, the address for the main Memo account is: `1F5GrRezwGokQhxmF4fYaBbbNrPPaeBqMm`.
So you can do `@F5GrRezwGokQhxmF4fYaBbbNrPPaeBqMm` to tag that account in a post or share with others.

The number at the beginning of the address is removed since it doesn't provide much additional entropy.
P2SH addresses can be used to and will compete in the same address space as P2PKH addresses.

The problem is that is a very long name and impractical for humans.
If you shorten the address, we can still maintain uniqueness.
For instance, if we did `@F5GrR`, there is currently only one address in the Memo database that matches that prefix.

If there are collisions, then the address used in the earliest block will be used.
For instance, if you tagged `@F`, then the Memo profile would be tagged since it was the first one to start with `1F`.

## Reference Implementation

Planned

## See Also
